The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, Fight Temptation, Humiliate the Devil.
Ding, ding.
That's the sound of the bell as the fight goes on between the devil and his demons and the children of God.
I don't know about you, but whenever I'm reflecting on the temptation of Jesus by the devil in the gospel of Matthew, I can't help but imagine a boxing match.
Maybe I've seen the Rocky movies one too many times, but I get the sense of, okay, you got the devil, the master of disaster, the king of sting in one corner.
And then you got Jesus, the Prince of Peace and King of Kings and the other corner.
And the devil goes out and he swings and Jesus dodges and pounds the devil and he goes down.
The devil gets back up, wants round two, right?
Comes out swinging again, but he can't touch Jesus.
Jesus dodging here and there.
And Jesus hits him with another one and the devil goes down.
And then he gets back up.
Brown three is coming and he's giving him everything he's got, right?
Everything he's got.
And he can't touch Jesus.
Just left, right.
He can't touch him.
And then one more blow, uppercut.
The devil goes down, matches over.
St. Luke says that after the devil had finished his temptations, he left him for a time.
We know the devil always wants to rematch, right?
So that rematch is at Calvary.
I wonder, Jesus is at his weakest there on the cross with all that suffering.
Are you taxing in the weakest moment?
And there's that temptation.
If you are the Son of God, come down from that cross that we might see and believe in you.
Well, here it is.
Here comes the death blow, right?
Jesus, by dying on the cross, destroys death.
By rising, he restores our life.
And now, baptized in Christ, the devil need not have any power over us.
We recognize that, yes, he still, he always wants another rematch like Apollo Creed.
So yes, the fight goes on with the adopted sons and daughters of God.
The clear message of the readings today is that we are to expect temptations.
Each and every one of us is going to be tempted every single day of our lives.
After passing through the waters of baptism, we need to pass through the fires of temptation.
It's coming.
We need to rise every morning ready for battle.
There was a good stretch of time where I had set for my wake up alarm.
I have the tiger to wake up ready for battle.
We want to get pumped up for this, right?
And Jesus is going to be our strength in this.
And we might ask, well, why?
Why does God let us be tempted?
Especially if there's this particular sin we just keep falling into.
We've been fighting for so long, it feels like inevitable that we're going to fall in.
We might ask, why?
We might get mad at God.
Well, there's a number of good reasons why God allows us to be tempted.
One is to give us self-knowledge, to let us know where we stand in this relationship.
How deep is our love for God?
Every temptation is a chance to prove our love for God.
If we give in right away to the temptation, well, then we realize I must not have very much love for God.
If we fight a good amount and still end up falling, okay, well, I have some love for God, but I definitely need to grow a lot more.
And if we are fighting and with the help of Christ, we triumph, right?
Then that's a beautiful display of the love of God.
And the fact that we have renounced the devil.
At our baptism, there were those questions.
Do you reject Satan?
I do.
And all his evil works?
And all his empty show?
I do.
Every temptation is a chance to renew that.
For the devil to realize, yes, we have definitively renounced him.
We don't want to have any part of him.
God is giving us everything we need to triumph.
Another reason why we are allowed to be tempted is to grow in virtue with resistance, like in weightlifting.
We were able to grow more muscle when there's more resistance that we have to work again.
And again, so God wants us to rise to the heights of sanctity.
So yes, He's going to let us be tempted.
And as we grow in sanctity, as we get holier, we can expect the devil is going to attack us all the more.
Because for him it would be an even greater victory if after we have risen some in sanctity, he's able to pull us back down.
And so let's not expect the temptations to lessen as we are trying to grow in holiness.
But one of my favorite reasons God allows temptation is for the devil to be humiliated when he throws everything he's got at us.
And by the power of Christ, our cooperation with grace, we nevertheless triumph.
Let us expect to triumph with the help of Christ.
Let us recognize in the in the gospel, our Lord triumphed through his human nature.
There was the temptation to use his divine power, but he doesn't give into that.
He triumphs over the devil with his human nature.
See, part of the reason for the temptation of Jesus, the devil was trying to figure out, is this really God?
Is this really the son of God?
He had heard the words of God at the baptism of Jesus.
This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased.
The devil also knows the scriptures.
He knew the prophecies of a Messiah to come and
There were prophecies that one whose existence is from of old.
So now he's questioning, is this the one?
And is this really God?
Has he really taken human nature?
But Jesus doesn't satisfy that curiosity.
He doesn't reveal his divine power.
He defeats him with his human nature, the knowledge of the scriptures, and obedience to God's will.
And so we can expect to triumph in the same way.
We want to set our frame of mind
Giving in is never inevitable.
I repeat, giving in is never inevitable.
It's a temptation, a lie of the devil for us to think, you know, I, I always fall, you know, I always end up committing the sin.
You know, I just, I just, I'm too weak.
It's not possible.
I can't do it.
Lie of the devil.
Giving in is never inevitable.
inevitable.
It's one of the things he uses to try to get us mad at God, or you're the one who lets me suffer these temptations, or you could just take them away from me.
No, we have no right to get mad at God.
God in every single temptation, he offers us everything we need, all the grace we need to triumph.
It doesn't matter if we've been suffering from an addiction.
And yes, that does weaken our will.
It does lessen our culpability.
But let us realize it's still possible to triumph.
giving in is never inevitable.
We can win with Christ.
And how does the devil fight?
Good to know our enemy.
One, he always tempts us with good things or at least with a good way of looking at things.
And we see for Eve, what was she focusing on?
Why did she commit the sin?
Oh, well, she saw that the tree was good for food and a delight to the eyes and desirable for gaining wisdom.
and we can all too easily fall into this, justifying our sins.
We can always think of excuses for our sins.
Oh, well, it's good in this way, or it's good for this or that.
We need to recognize.
If an action is not good in every way, then it is not good at all.
If an action is not good in every way in what we are doing, the object, in why we are doing it, the intention, and in the circumstances surrounding it,
If it's not good in all of those ways, then it is evil.
A good intention can never transform an evil act into a good one.
So we reject all excuses.
There was an example of someone who they had committed the sin of fornication by taking the marital act out of marriage.
And they thought, oh wow, I thought it was gonna feel dirty.
I thought it was gonna feel horrible because I know it's a mortal sin, but actually it felt really good.
Well, yes, it makes sense.
The devil is going to tempt us with good things, but in the wrong context, not at the right time, not in the right way.
He'll present the good so that we will do the evil.
If it's not God's will, it's going to be evil.
It doesn't matter the excuse.
Secondly, the devil attacks us when we're at our weakest moment.
He looks for our weakest moment and the weakest thing about us and attacks us there.
He waited till he noticed Jesus was hungry.
to tempt him to turn the stone into bread.
Now, I always found this interesting when I would read the Gospel of Matthew that he points this out, that after he fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, and afterwards he was hungry.
And I'm thinking, well, duh.
I'm like, no kidding, right?
I'm sure I'd be hungry after fasting 40 days and 40 nights.
Do we really need to point this out?
But yes, he did because for people who focus on the divinity of Christ, they might think,
Well, fasting for 40 days, 40 nights, it's going to be a piece of cake for him.
And maybe he could go that long and still not be hungry.
Well, so the fact that he points out he was hungry is letting us, it's emphasizing, yes, he truly took on human nature.
And so he experienced hunger.
There's the revelation of both his divinity and his humanity in this.
Moses and Elijah, if we know our scriptures, they had
fasted for 40 days and 40 nights.
And we are talking about a full fast, no food at all.
And they made it.
But the followers of the church point out, they were hungry during those 40 days and 40 nights, but they endured.
Our Lord's divinity is shown that He wasn't hungry until after the 40 days.
And so that's something of God, that He wasn't hungry during that time.
But after the 40 days,
He allows himself to experience it in all of its weakness.
And so any divine help, it leaves human nature to itself.
So he is very hungry.
And for any of us who might have been tempted to think, well, Jesus experienced temptation and the devil tempted him.
But he never experienced it like I do.
It was never that strong of an inclination to do what was being suggested as I am.
Jesus really doesn't know what I've been through.
Wrong.
When we think of how hungry he must have been after 40 days of not eating, he was starving.
Every inclination of his body was to eat as soon as possible.
That longing for food was stronger than any inclination we might have, even the inclination of someone who might be addicted to alcohol.
or drugs or pornography and that it seems like so insatiable this desire and they can't fight it.
Our Lord's inclination to eat was stronger than what we would experience as an addiction.
That's how natural it was, that inclination to eat.
And because he has his fallen, his human nature is not fallen.
His
Experiences in the body were all the more intense than ours.
So we can't imagine how hungry he was.
Yes, it was a very strong temptation as far as that inclination to give into it bodily, but his will firmly set on God.
So yes, the devil is going to attack us where we are weakest.
We need to examine ourselves and ask what is my dominant fault?
Where am I weakest?
That's where he's going to attack me.
I need to be ready for it and set my will firmly on obedience to God.
Let us look out for each other.
When you see someone in a weak moment, say some extra prayers for them and realizing that the devil is probably going to attack them in that weak moment.
Third thing of the devil, same old tricks, same strategy that's there.
First, he attacks us on the level of the flesh.
And we see for Adam and Eve, right?
The three things mentioned.
that it was good for food, delight to the eyes, desirable for gaining wisdom.
Saint John the Evangelist points out these three things as the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life.
These are the three strategies the devil always uses.
And firstly he'll go for the flesh, the body.
Most souls he's able to take down that way.
Our Blessed Mother revealed to Saint Jacinta that
More souls go to hell for sins of the flesh than for any other sin."
So he goes for the flesh first, tempting our Lord to turn the stone into bread, fulfill the needs of his body.
When that doesn't work, when we're able to triumph over that, then he goes for pride.
And then he says, oh, if you're the Son of God, cast yourself down from here and the God will send his angels.
This would be an act of vanity.
an act of pride, of empty glory of kind of showing off.
So he'll tempt us.
Oh, well, yeah, I'm not falling into those sins of impurity or those sins of the flesh and to start thinking too pridefully of ourselves.
And he'll grab a number of souls that way.
Then there's after this, the, the sin of covetousness or desiring always more things or more glory, more riches for me.
It's a way of distracting us from our call to sanctity.
Another call to examination.
Which one of these afflicts us the most?
Is it the flesh?
Is it pride?
Is that what I give into the most?
Do I maybe tell some lies to appear better in the eyes of others?
Do I listen or contribute to gossip so that I'll appear better in the eyes of others, be more accepted by them?
What's the sin that I'm giving into?
So those are the devil's strategies, his tricks.
And next comes the training.
I want to train ourselves for the battle.
And so we have this great season of Lent where we embrace the remedies.
We embrace especially fasting, self-denial, mortification.
We need to practice saying no, practicing no to ourselves when it comes to good things, things that aren't necessarily sins like soda or candy or chocolate or any of these things.
We practice saying no so that when
The temptations come to things that really are evil.
We're able to say, no, we have good practice in there.
We're able to say it firmly.
No.
You want to shut the door on the devil as soon as he's trying to get his toe in there.
I want to slam it on him at the very start of temptation.
You might have given up one or two things for lens.
Well, let us not settle for that.
As we go through Lent, we're meant to intensify our penance, to go for the gold, go for as much as we can.
How much can we take?
This is the season to really embrace this self-denial.
We're supposed to be doing this all year.
All year long, we're supposed to be doing acts of penance.
Every Friday especially is a day of penance, but having been baptized just as a whole,
We are not supposed to be focusing on self-indulgence like worldly people do, just a comfortable lifestyle.
We are supposed to be focusing on the cross, self-denial, living that out throughout our whole life, embracing the cross.
Lent is just the time where we do this all the more, where we step it up, where we intensify it.
So yes, let's not be afraid to add some more penances as we go along.
Perhaps that always useful cold shower.
We're being attempted to sin of impurity.
Well, nice ice cold shower there.
Take that body, show the body who's boss.
And the body's like, okay, okay, okay, forget the temptation.
Just get me out of this cold shower.
We got to show the body who's boss by whatever means.
And St. Paul says, I treat my body hard and make it obey me.
We also train ourselves by reading and memorizing scripture.
Our Lord fought using scripture, right?
He answered back with scripture.
So we want to
to read it and memorize it.
I remember reading a book that was suggesting different remedies against temptations to impurity.
And one of the things that I hadn't read before I saw that book was memorized scripture, especially if there's been pornography.
If there have been unclean sites and they're kind of burned into the mind, you know, the images, they get burned in for years.
Oh, we want to burn them out by burning in scripture, memorize scripture, want to drown evil with a sea of good.
drown evil with the sea of God's word.
Psalm 51, very good penitential Psalm, the one David wrote after he had committed the sin with Bathsheba.
I'd memorize that one.
Psalm 90 is another good one to memorize.
Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
Psalm 27, the Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear?
The Lord is the stronghold of my life before whom shall I shrink?
Though an army and camp against me, my heart would not fear.
Though war break out against me, even then would I trust."
And this is like the spinach for Popeye.
We let the scriptures pump us up every day.
Get us ready for battle.
Matthew 5.8, blessed are the pure of heart, for they shall see God.
First Corinthians 2, chapter verse 9, I has not seen, ear has not heard, nor has it so much as dawned on man, what God has planned for those who love him.
Yes!
It's worth fighting for and strategies for fight.
Okay.
We've done the training.
We're practicing self-denial reading scripture.
Now how do we fight first rule for fighting?
Get out of there.
Right.
A flee run or in the words of Gandalf from Lord of the Rings, fly you fools need to get out of the occasion of sin.
Uh, even as strong as our will might be to avoid sin,
It's just too easy for us to succumb when we're presented with the fascination of sin.
So we do everything we can to run from it in the words of Mr. Miyagi in the Karate Kid series.
The best strategy for a fight?
No be there.
If you recognize something is regularly an occasion of sin, no be there.
Especially with sins to impurity.
We don't want to be arguing with it, trying to face it head on.
The saints tell us to run away from this, distract ourselves, do something else, turn the mind away.
Now what if we can't do that?
We do our best to avoid the occasions of sin, but what if the occasion of sin is every day there in my work?
Maybe someone there at work.
Maybe the occasion to sin is there in my home.
Maybe not all my family members are on board with sanctity and rejecting sin.
Or maybe there's regular temptations there.
What do we do then when we can't run?
We have to face this.
Well, then we call for help.
Call for God's help.
Call on the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit led Jesus into the desert.
And to face that temptation of the devil, we want to
call on the Holy Spirit.
Just those three power forwards.
Come Holy Spirit.
We can shoot those out over and over again.
One priest said whenever he recognized the temptations coming, he'd shout out, Jesus, Mary, save me.
Jesus, Mary, save me.
The two that Satan, he never had any power over for sure.
We want to call on them for their help, their intercession.
We want to call on our guardian angel.
He will command his angels concerning you lest you dash your foot against a stone.
He does command his angels concerning us.
Each and every one of us has that guardian angel, especially meant to help us in times of temptation.
Call on him.
Pray the Saint Michael prayer.
And another thing to bring to the fight.
Remember what we're fighting for.
Remember what we're fighting for, namely love.
We are fighting for love.
We're not just fighting to avoid going to hell.
We are fighting for the sake of loving union with God.
Perfect loving union with God.
That transforming union that we are meant to reach at the heights of sanctity.
That mystical marriage of the soul with God.
Satan is not just trying to send us to hell.
Yes, he'd love that.
But he knows some souls is just not going to happen.
Well, he'll be content if he can just prolong their time in perfection.
If he can prolong that time,
before they become a saint, before we reach that mystical marriage, even with venial sin.
Okay, we don't end up dying spiritually, but the devil's still laughing at us because with every sin, it's going to be a longer time before we reach that transforming union.
Now we have more sins to make up for.
So we should be as upset at the thought of temptation as
a bride would be on her wedding day if some punk tries to come up and tempt her to ditch this groom and go with me instead.
And maybe that guy even tries to kiss her.
She should be throwing him off.
And how dare you?
How dare you try to get between me and my beloved?
Maria Goretti, when she was trying to fight off Alessandro, who was trying to rape her, one of the things she said was, it would make me unworthy to receive our Lord in Holy Communion.
that desire for union with our Lord was a great motivation for her to fight.
It would make me unworthy to receive our Lord in Holy Communion.
I would rather die.
Let us cherishing that union that we are called to with our Lord be ready to die rather than commit sin.
Not just no, but literally hell no.
Right?
Hell no.
Because it would be hell to be detained from union with Jesus for even one more instant.
Be gone Satan, get away.
Quítate.
Spanish, get out of here, take yourself out of here.
If we fall, always get back up.
Always get back up.
Regular confession, devotion to our Blessed Mother, go to the Eucharist, Holy Communion, visualize your triumph.
Take a moment after Holy Communion to imagine yourself years from now, or by the power of God, perhaps a month or so from now, right?
Having grown so much that we're so much in love that we are resisting every temptation easily with the help of God.
We're so on fire with love that no, we've rejected it.
Or it's been years since I've fallen into that sin that I was addicted to.
We visualize that success, that triumph, that freedom.
We give glory to God.
may profess those powerful words of Saint Paul, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
We hope you enjoyed the sermon entitled, Fight Temptation, Humiliate the Devil.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Peace Into Our Hearts.
At the beginning of our Lenten journey, we find ourselves at the beginning.
Our first reading is from the book of Genesis, the first book of the Bible.
We find ourselves in the first few chapters.
And then our Gospel, we find ourselves in the beginning of Jesus's public life.
And at both instances, we find temptation.
We find in these beginnings, Satan prowling around, looking for someone to devour like a roaring lion.
And we see how Adam and Eve respond to this.
And we see how our Lord responds to it.
And so we find ourselves in Genesis two and three.
And if we remember Genesis one, it's where God creates the heavens in the earth.
and the water and all of the animals and all of the creatures and all of the plants.
And as he is making everything, he says that it is good.
He sees what he has made and he calls it good.
And now here, Genesis 2, he begins to create man and woman.
This is the crown jewel of his creation.
that this is the part of creation that's going to bear his image and likeness.
So we're told that the Lord, the Father God who like a potter forms man from the clay of the earth and fashions him and then breathes life into him.
And then we don't hear the part about Eve being created, but we know that she comes from the side of Adam.
And in this making of the crown of His creation, man and woman who bear the imprint, who bear the image and likeness of God, man stands before woman and he sees just how good all of this is and bursts into the first song or the first poem ever composed by a human heart when man looks upon woman and says,
This at last is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh and she shall be called woman.
And it is very, very good what God has made.
And you and I made by God have been made very good.
And then we pick up the story.
with that serpent, the most cunning of all the animals that the Lord had made.
It begins to tempt them.
And he does so by just confusing them just a little bit.
Is that really what God said?
And just so a little bit of doubt, a little bit of confusion to then begin to second guess.
what God has said and in the goodness of all of this that God has made for them, even the goodness of this law that they shall not eat of this tree.
It begins to confuse and so doubt.
And he gets them to fall.
He gets them to sin.
And we are told that when this happens that their eyes were open.
They realized that they were naked, so they sewed fig leaves together and made loincloths for themselves.
We don't hear it this morning, but we are told that when Adam and Eve first meet each other, they first encounter.
Genesis tells us that they were naked without shame.
And now here in their sin and their fall,
Their eyes are open.
And now they want to hide.
They want to hide from one another.
And in a few more verses, God is going to come traveling through the garden and they're going to want to hide from him.
That they were made without shame.
And now because of their sin, they have this shame.
And they look upon each other with shame.
And Adam doesn't want Eve to look at him.
And Eve does not want Adam to look at her.
And so they sew these fig leaves and these loincloths to hide.
And they don't want God to look at them.
So they hide.
They hide in their shame.
The peace and the joy that they had with themselves.
with creation and with God is now broken, shattered.
And now all they want to do is hide.
And this is the world that you and I have inherited.
This is the plight of our existence as being sons and daughters of Adam and Eve that we too experience this shame.
We want to hide from one another.
We want to hide from God.
And we can all think of moments when we have been shamed by another.
The way that we look, the way that we talk.
Maybe something in our family that people know and they talk about and gossip and tease.
Or they found out that we like this particular band or
We liked this particular song or this book and we were ridiculed and made fun of and called stupid for the things that we liked.
And it might seem trivial, but we now bear the weight of that shame.
And our song, we pray, for I acknowledge my offense and my sin is always before me.
thoroughly wash me from my guilt and cleanse me from my sin.
The psalmist recognizes his guilt and his sin is always before him and he wants to be washed and cleansed of this.
This is a good prayer.
This is a prayer inspired by the Holy Spirit Psalm 51.
One of the most beautiful Psalms that we have.
But I think it's important that we make a distinction between shame and then this guilt that the psalmist talks about and his sin always being before him.
That guilt and recognizing one sin is a recognition that I have done something wrong.
I have done something wrong.
It's always before me.
I can see it.
And then shame says, there is something wrong with me.
Those are two very, very different experiences.
Those are two very, very different ways to experience our sin.
I have done something wrong and I need forgiveness.
There is something wrong with me and I wish I was different.
And this shame that came into our hearts and our existence with Adam and Eve, that this is not what God wants us to live with.
That he breathes into them at the beginning and he gives them life.
And then at the end, once we get through our Lenten journey and we get through the cross and the resurrection, we're going to hear these resurrection accounts
And God is going to breathe on His people again.
In the upper room, He's going to breathe on them and say, peace be with you.
That peace that we lost.
That peace that we lost with that first sin of our parents, Adam and Eve.
And the shame that they experienced and their desire to hide from one another into God.
God is going to remove that.
And he's going to breathe on them and say, peace.
That peace that you lost in your hearts, I have come to give it back to you again.
And I have come to take all of the shame of the world upon myself.
And they try to shame Jesus and his passion.
All of the shameful things that they do it
They slap him.
They spit on him.
They strip him.
They parade him around.
They mock him with a crown of thorns.
And even then, the thief is saying, if you are God, do something about this.
All of the shame of the cross.
He takes it upon himself.
He takes your shame and my shame.
And he takes it with him into the tomb and he leaves it there.
He leaves it there.
And he rises then to give us peace.
Peace be with you, he says.
He doesn't rise again, enter into that upper room where his apostles, his closest friends are huddled together and they are afraid.
and saying, where were you guys in my darkest hour?
You all left me.
I knew when I picked you that you were, you know, kind of a lousy law, but I didn't know you were this terrible.
No, that's not what he does.
He says, peace be with you.
You see, brothers and sisters, God will never shame you.
God will never shame you.
Our sin and our wrongdoing and our guilt might always be before our eyes.
And it might convict us, it might call us on to holiness, to do better, to strive, to not do the things that we have done to offend God and hurt our neighbor and ourselves.
And God will correct, but He does not shame.
And that is an immediate tell-tale sign that God is not speaking to you.
If that internal monologue in your heart and in your head is bringing you into shame, that that is straight from hell, that is straight from the devil, that God does not shame us.
We see in our own, our Lord's temptations that
that Satan tries to then sow some doubt and confusion into Jesus.
And he begins each temptation the exact same way.
If you are the Son of God, if you are the Son of God, if you are the Son of God, do this, turn these stones into bread, throw yourself off of the parapet, and fall down before me.
If you are the Son of God,
And you can hear him trying to sow confusion into the situation and into Jesus.
Am I really the Son of God?
Is this what the Son of God must do?
Is this how the Son of God acts?
But Jesus knows.
He knows and he is not going to fall into the trap.
Because there's a subtle shame in that.
If you're the son of God, you'll really do this.
Certainly the son of God would not do that.
What kind of son of God is that?
There's something wrong with that kind of son of God.
But really the son of God would do this.
If you're the son of God, do this.
He's trying to confuse, trying to bring doubts, and trying to bring shame into Jesus's identity of who he is.
But he knows.
He knows who he is, and he knows who's speaking to him.
He says, get behind me, Satan.
I know what it is to be the Son of God, and I'm going to be obedient to my Father in heaven and everything that he asks of me.
And so, brothers and sisters, as we begin our Lenten journey, we are brought back to the beginning and
And the Lord shows us how to hear His voice and what the voice of the devil sounds like.
The voice of the devil sounds like doubt.
It sounds like confusion.
And it sounds like shame.
But God has made you very good.
And He loves you.
and not once has it ever entered in his heart to shame you, but rather to die for you and to forgive you and to take all of your shame from you and carry it himself.
And yes, our sin and our guilt are always before our eyes, but not to our shame, not to our self-hatred, not to our self-condemnation, but to remind us of what our dignity is as a Son
and daughter of God, that those things are beneath us.
They are beneath us.
They are not speaking to our dignity and the goodness and the greatness and the glory in which God has made us.
And yes, we fall short of it all the time.
And it's always before us to convict us, to remind us, but not
to shame you.
God does not shame.
God loves and forgives and picks us up.
And so if there is not peace in our hearts, let us ask for God to come to breathe upon us.
To breathe upon us like he did Adam and Eve.
To breathe upon us like he did his apostles in the upper room.
and give us that peace in our hearts.
Where we don't want to hide from one another.
And we don't want to hide from God.
Where we can do both things at the same time.
To see our sin always before us and our guilt always before us.
And then just how much God loves us and forgives us.
And has not shamed us for it.
He can breathe peace into our hearts.
peace into our hearts so that we won't live in the shame like Adam and Eve.
We won't hide from one another.
We won't hide from God.
But we can become saints.
We can become saints and leave our sins behind us and live in that peace and that love and that joy that you and I were made for.
We hope you enjoy this sermon entitled Peace Into Our Hearts.
Our final sermon for today is entitled Fasting From Sin.
The brothers and sisters in Christ welcome this Sunday to Lens.
Today Jesus allows himself to be tempted by the devil
just as he also allows us to be tempted many times during our daily lives.
Jesus Christ immediately after baptism of John was led by the Holy Spirit who descended in the form of a dove upon him to the rugged desert regions that lie, if you know the geography to the west of Jericho, a desert which extends from Jericho to the mountains of Judea.
Here he was led
and tempted by the devil.
The Lord knew the thoughts being God, the devil, that he sought to tempt him as the devil had heard that Jesus had been born into this world with the preaching of the angels, the witness of the shepherds, the inquiry of the Magi and the testimony of John.
He prepared himself our Lord now for his public life in ministry by this fast of 40 days
and 40 nights.
We see the first clash then between the Redeemer and Satan.
Jesus Christ who came from heaven to free us from slavery and the snares of Satan and to map out the path of salvation for all of humanity.
First of all the very fact of temptation is very mysterious since the Redeemer was perfectly ordained in all his powers and was wisdom, order,
holiness and harmony itself.
Therefore, he could not suffer a temptation out of necessity or a disturbance in powers or an illusion of false light.
It was impossible for our Lord then to fall into temptation, being God.
How was it possible then for Satan to tempt our Lord?
It was Jesus Christ.
This is important himself in his loving charity who put himself
in the condition to feel a weakness and not be able to feel it in his soul because it was so perfect, but he felt it in his humanity, in his body fasting for 40 days and 40 nights.
Christ wished to be tempted.
Christ allowed himself to be tempted that he might strengthen us against temptations just as by his death he overcame our death.
Secondly, that we might be
warned that so none, however holy, may think himself safe or free from temptation.
This is all our daily lot.
Thirdly, in order to give us example to teach us how to overcome these temptations of the devil.
And lastly, Jesus Christ wanted to give us confidence in his abounding mercy.
Christ to resolve free will then expose himself to be tempted by the devil.
Just as his own free will, he submitted himself to be killed by his members on the cross, else the devil would not have dared to approach him.
Now the devil prefers then to a sailman when he is alone.
And so it was with Christ in the desert.
It was also becoming that Christ should wish to fast before his temptation.
First, in order to give us an example, he teaches us the need of fasting in order to equip ourselves against temptation.
Secondly, in order to show that the devil assails with temptations even those who fast.
As likewise, those who are given up to other good works.
And so Christ's temptation to place after his fast is also after his baptism in the Jordan.
The temptation, if you don't know, dear brothers and sisters of Christ, which comes from the enemy always takes the form of a suggestion.
Consequently, the devil does not straightaway tempt the spiritual man to gray sins, but it begins slowly, slowly, slowly with lighter sins.
And so as to gradually to lead him to those of greater magnitude.
Thus did the devil set the temptation of the first man, the first woman Adam and Eve.
For at first he enticed his mind to consent to the eating of the forbidden fruit in jealousies, saying those words.
Why hath God commanded that you should not eat of the tree of paradise?
Secondly, divine glory by saying your eyes shall be opened.
And lastly, he had the temptation to the extreme,
He led the temptation to the extreme height of pride saying, you shall be as God's knowing good and evil.
The same order did he tempt Christ.
But first he tempted him to that which men desire, however spiritual that they may be, namely the support of the corporate nature of food.
Secondly, he advanced to the matter in which spiritual men are sometimes found wanting, and as so much
as they do certain things for sure, which pertains to something called vain glory.
And lastly, he led the temptation on that in which no spiritual man but only carnal man have part, namely the desire of riches and fame in the world to the extent of holding God in contempt.
Know well that those who are most serious by their faith
and seek the path of Christian perfection will unfortunately be tempted more.
St. Hilary tells us the devil snares are cheaply spread for the sanctified because a victory over the saints is more desired than the others.
Especially the devil is after those in the clergy, the religious and the priests because if he brings a priest down and he more likely bring most of the flock down also.
We have also heard the story of the devil who abandons the whole population in the prison of their vices without the need to tempt them because they wallow in their own sins, in steady roms around for the pious souls and religious hoping to entangle them into his deceits.
We must then enter this spiritual battle and overcome these temptations how?
by being filled with the life of supernatural grace and charity, by a life of prayer and the sacraments, especially the sacrament of confession, trying to go as often as possible.
Remember, the confession is not just a sacrament to release you of your sins, but it is preventative.
Jesus Christ pours his precious blood over your soul to prevent the devil from tempting you.
This is the beauty of the confession.
With these weapons and the life of charity, you can repel, then, the first advance of the tempter by prayer.
Know well that if you consent, though, to these temptations and in pure thought, perhaps, you want them, they move from your mind, then, into your heart in this passage.
You take pleasure in them, and thus you will fall.
You become then a child of the devil in this moment of sin.
Our lady is the one then we look to to crush the head of the serpent, the devil and his minions to eject these temptations at the earliest possible stage.
Why not pray the Holy Rosary daily?
And perhaps you will be able to see and present to Mary, our mother, a sweet bouquet
of roses in this beautiful story as we read now.
A good simple secular man had the daily practice of making a chocolate of roses of whatever flower he could find according to the season and placing this on the head of the statue of our Lady.
He did this with great joy and pious devotion.
The Virgin saw the good intention of his heart and wanting to help him further
She gave him the desire to become religious.
He ended religious life as a lay brother in a cloister.
But the cloister was given to so many tusks.
It was very busy that he had no time in order to make this chocolate flowers for Mary as his custom.
For this reason, he became dissatisfied.
He was about to leave the order and return into the world when an older priest who was wise
became aware of his distress.
The priest advised him that he should instead recite each day 50 Ave Maria's, the Holy Rosary, in place of the chaplet of roses and convinced him that Virgin Mary would prefer this to all these rose chaplets that were ever made.
The lay brother followed the advice and continued this for some time.
Then one day he was sent on to an errand
that required him to ride through a forest that harboured many thieves and brigands.
In the forest, he tied his horse to a tree, knelt down and was reciting his 50 Ave Marie's, and then some thieves saw him and decided to rub him and steal him of his horse.
But as they approached him from a distance, they saw from a distance a wonderfully beautiful maiden standing by him,
who every little while took from his mouth a beautiful rose and added it to a garland that she was making.
When the rose chapel was complete, she placed it on her head and flew into heaven.
The robbers were thoroughly amazed and ran to the brother asking him who the beautiful maiden was that they had seen beside him.
The late brother replied, I did not have any maiden with me.
I have been only reciting the 50 Ave Maria's as a chocolate for the Queen Mary, as I was instructed.
This is all I know, he said.
When the robbers told him what they had seen, the late brother and the robbers too realized, then that this was the Holy Mother of God in person, had accepted the rose chocolate that he was accustomed to send her daily.
Then the brother rejoiced from the depths of his heart.
And from that day forward made a spiritual rose of the Holy Rosary, 50 Ave Marie's, per Our Lady Daily, and instructed the good people with this practice.
The robbers rejoiced because God's grace had permitted them to hold within their eyes the Mother of Mercy.
Remember well then that the greatest fast in brothers and sisters in Christ this Lent is to fast from sin.
We must offer arms, fists and sacrifices as Catholics.
What else can we do by stepping out in faith?
We can also help to overcome the tactics of the devil.
By such charity we can disarm the evil one as our Lord in the Jordan in the desert so that one day in a life allowing ourselves to be led by the Holy Spirit
In our 40 days of life, in this pilgrimage on this earth, we will no longer be tempted, but we will gaze upon the face of our redeemer with our mother, Corredemptix, and our Queen in Paradise forever and ever and ever.
Amen.
May the holy names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph be blessed now and forever in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app
under sermons for everyday living.
Have a blessed day.